MTE 380
Milestone 3: Memo – Design Calculations (individual). 4 - 5 pages maximum.
Submitted as an individual effort, the memo will report to the teaching team a set of calculations
to support your group’s design decisions. Each calculation submitted by a group’s members should
be different; i.e., multiple people from the same group should not be submitting the same
calculation.
Your submission should include a memo detailing the purpose of the document, the purpose of the
calculation, the result of the calculation, and how it supports your team’s design decision. The
calculation and design specifications must be included.
Use the calculation template introduced in the Detailed Design lecture for the example of propeller
and motor sizing.
Possible Calculations related to the overall Detailed Design that you may submit depending
on your responsibilities towards your team’s effort (one or more of the categories below):
a. Mechanical design
i. Examples but not necessarily required: i) kinematics analysis, ii) dynamics
analysis, iii) friction, iv) thrust, v) steering, vi) motor selection, vii) design
of structural members.
1. Brief explanation of theory
2. Calculations
3. Computer Simulation
4. Testing
b. Electrical design
i. Examples but not necessarily required: i) power, ii) sensors, iii) filters, iv)
H-bridge
1. Brief explanation of theory
2. Calculations
3. Computer Simulation
4. Testing
c. Control system
i. Examples but not necessarily required: i) navigation, ii) control algorithm,
iii) state machine, iv) root locus, v) bode plot, vi) software
1. Brief explanation of theory
2. Calculations or Control algorithms
3. Computer Simulation
4. Testing
Design calculations: The calculation should start with a design objective or constraint and lead to
a design decision and possibly a component selection. With five groups members there should be
five calculations spread across mechanical, electrical, and controls. You are being individually
marked for your calculations.

Instead of a calculation, a computer simulation can be performed. You must still demonstrate an
understanding of the underlying engineering principal that you are applying. Software that is used
for FEA, for example, can be considered as a calculation or simulation, but what is the underlying
engineering principal? Testing is also another approach to design and can be substituted for a
calculation.

